.github/instructions/02-02.versions.instructions.md, before:

---
description: "Instructions for version requirements"
applyTo: "**"
---
# Versions

# Minimum Versions - Quick Reference

**CRITICAL: ALWAYS use the same version everywhere** (dev, CI/CD, Docker, workflows, docs)

**Current Versions** (as of 2025-12-24):

- Go: 1.25.5+
- Python: 3.14+
- golangci-lint: v2.7.2+
- Node: v24.11.1+ LTS
- Java: 21 LTS (Gatling load tests)
- Maven: 3.9+
- pre-commit: 2.20.0+
- Docker: 24+
- Docker Compose: v2+

**Update Locations** (when changing versions):

- `go.mod`, `pyproject.toml`, `package.json`
- `.github/workflows/*.yml`
- `Dockerfile`, `docker-compose.yml`
- `README.md`, `docs/DEV-SETUP.md`

## Version Consistency Principle

**CRITICAL: ALWAYS use the same version in every part of the project** (development, CI/CD, Docker, GitHub Actions, documentation)

## Minimum Required Versions

### Core Languages

| Tool | Minimum Version | Release Date | Reference |
|------|----------------|--------------|-----------|
| **Go** | 1.25.5+ | 2025-12-02 | <https://go.dev/doc/devel/release#go1.25.5> |
| **Python** | 3.14+ | 2025-10-07 | <https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3140/> |
| **Node** | v24.11.1+ LTS | 2025-11-11 | <https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v24.11.1/> |
| **Java** | 21 LTS | 2023-09-19 | <https://jdk.java.net/21/> |

**Note**: Java required for Gatling load tests in `test/load/`

### Build Tools

| Tool | Minimum Version | Release Date | Reference |
|------|----------------|--------------|-----------|
| **golangci-lint** | v2.7.2+ | 2025-12-19 | <https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/releases/tag/v2.7.2> |
| **Maven** | 3.9+ | 2023-01-31 | <https://maven.apache.org/docs/history.html#3.9.0> |
| **pre-commit** | 2.20.0+ | 2022-07-10 | <https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit/releases/tag/v2.20.0> |

### Container Runtime

| Tool | Minimum Version | Release Date | Reference |
|------|----------------|--------------|-----------|
| **Docker** | 24+ | 2023-05-16 | <https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/24.0/> |
| **Docker Compose** | v2+ | 2021-09-28 | <https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.0.0> |

## Version Update Policy

**Update Frequency**: Security patches (apply immediately), minor versions (update monthly), major versions (evaluate quarterly)

**Verification Before Updates**: ALWAYS verify: (1) Check official release notes for breaking changes, (2) Review security advisories and CVE fixes, (3) Validate compatibility with existing dependencies, (4) Test in development environment before CI/CD updates, (5) Update documentation to reflect new version requirements

**Consistency Enforcement** (locations to update when changing versions): `go.mod`, `pyproject.toml`, `package.json`, `.github/workflows/*.yml`, `Dockerfile`, `docker-compose.yml`, `README.md`, `docs/DEV-SETUP.md`

## Key Takeaways

1. Version Consistency: Same version across development, CI/CD, Docker, workflows
2. Always Latest Stable: Prefer latest stable versions for security and features
3. Verify Before Update: Check release notes, breaking changes, compatibility
4. Update Everywhere: go.mod, workflows, Dockerfiles, docs when changing versions
5. Security First: Apply security patches immediately, minor/major updates on schedule

## Cross-References

See [ARCHITECTURE.md Section 2.2 Architecture Strategy](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#L222) for architectural decision-making principles across all system components.

See [ARCHITECTURE.md Section 11.1 Code Quality](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#L2239) for golangci-lint versioning and linter configuration.

Commit message:

docs(instructions): add ARCHITECTURE.md cross-references to 02-02.versions
Added cross-reference links from every section in 02-02.versions.instructions.md
to relevant ARCHITECTURE.md sections:
- Minimum Versions Quick Reference → Section 2.2
- Version Consistency Principle → Section 2.2, 9.7
- Minimum Required Versions → Section 9.7, 11.1
- Version Update Policy → Section 2.2, 13
- Key Takeaways → (summary, existing cross-refs sufficient)

Per user requirement: every section in every copilot instructions file must have
markdown link references to relevant ARCHITECTURE.md sections

.github/instructions/02-02.versions.instructions.md, after:

---
description: "Instructions for version requirements"
applyTo: "**"
---
# Versions

# Minimum Versions - Quick Reference

**CRITICAL: ALWAYS use the same version everywhere** (dev, CI/CD, Docker, workflows, docs)

**Current Versions** (as of 2025-12-24):

- Go: 1.25.5+
- Python: 3.14+
- golangci-lint: v2.7.2+
- Node: v24.11.1+ LTS
- Java: 21 LTS (Gatling load tests)
- Maven: 3.9+
- pre-commit: 2.20.0+
- Docker: 24+
- Docker Compose: v2+

**Update Locations** (when changing versions):

- `go.mod`, `pyproject.toml`, `package.json`
- `.github/workflows/*.yml`
- `Dockerfile`, `docker-compose.yml`
- `README.md`, `docs/DEV-SETUP.md`

See [ARCHITECTURE.md Section 2.2 Architecture Strategy](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#22-architecture-strategy) for version consistency and architectural decision-making principles.

## Version Consistency Principle

**CRITICAL: ALWAYS use the same version in every part of the project** (development, CI/CD, Docker, GitHub Actions, documentation)

See [ARCHITECTURE.md Section 2.2 Architecture Strategy](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#22-architecture-strategy) and [Section 9.7 CI/CD Workflow Architecture](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#97-cicd-workflow-architecture) for consistency requirements across all environments.

## Minimum Required Versions

### Core Languages

| Tool | Minimum Version | Release Date | Reference |
|------|----------------|--------------|-----------|
| **Go** | 1.25.5+ | 2025-12-02 | <https://go.dev/doc/devel/release#go1.25.5> |
| **Python** | 3.14+ | 2025-10-07 | <https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3140/> |
| **Node** | v24.11.1+ LTS | 2025-11-11 | <https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v24.11.1/> |
| **Java** | 21 LTS | 2023-09-19 | <https://jdk.java.net/21/> |

**Note**: Java required for Gatling load tests in `test/load/`

### Build Tools

| Tool | Minimum Version | Release Date | Reference |
|------|----------------|--------------|-----------|
| **golangci-lint** | v2.7.2+ | 2025-12-19 | <https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/releases/tag/v2.7.2> |
| **Maven** | 3.9+ | 2023-01-31 | <https://maven.apache.org/docs/history.html#3.9.0> |
| **pre-commit** | 2.20.0+ | 2022-07-10 | <https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit/releases/tag/v2.20.0> |

### Container Runtime

| Tool | Minimum Version | Release Date | Reference |
|------|----------------|--------------|-----------|
| **Docker** | 24+ | 2023-05-16 | <https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/24.0/> |
| **Docker Compose** | v2+ | 2021-09-28 | <https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.0.0> |

See [ARCHITECTURE.md Section 9.7 CI/CD Workflow Architecture](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#97-cicd-workflow-architecture) for tooling requirements in CI/CD pipelines and [Section 11.1 Code Quality](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#111-code-quality) for linter and code quality tool versions.

## Version Update Policy

**Update Frequency**: Security patches (apply immediately), minor versions (update monthly), major versions (evaluate quarterly)

**Verification Before Updates**: ALWAYS verify: (1) Check official release notes for breaking changes, (2) Review security advisories and CVE fixes, (3) Validate compatibility with existing dependencies, (4) Test in development environment before CI/CD updates, (5) Update documentation to reflect new version requirements

**Consistency Enforcement** (locations to update when changing versions): `go.mod`, `pyproject.toml`, `package.json`, `.github/workflows/*.yml`, `Dockerfile`, `docker-compose.yml`, `README.md`, `docs/DEV-SETUP.md`

See [ARCHITECTURE.md Section 2.2 Architecture Strategy](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#22-architecture-strategy) and [Section 13. Development Practices](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#13-development-practices) for version update policies and development standards.

## Key Takeaways

1. Version Consistency: Same version across development, CI/CD, Docker, workflows
2. Always Latest Stable: Prefer latest stable versions for security and features
3. Verify Before Update: Check release notes, breaking changes, compatibility
4. Update Everywhere: go.mod, workflows, Dockerfiles, docs when changing versions
5. Security First: Apply security patches immediately, minor/major updates on schedule

## Cross-References

See [ARCHITECTURE.md Section 2.2 Architecture Strategy](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#L222) for architectural decision-making principles across all system components.

See [ARCHITECTURE.md Section 11.1 Code Quality](../../docs/ARCHITECTURE.md#L2239) for golangci-lint versioning and linter configuration.
